I've been looking forward to today for some time.

I have a total treat in store for you today.

I, I feel jealous that you are where you are, having not experienced what I have in store for you

today and it's all about to happen to you.

You you probably think I'm being over the top, but wait and see.

All right.

What is it about today that I'm so excited about?

Well, this is the day of vectors for Rag.

I'm going to introduce Lang chain.

Such a.

I mean, we've been introduced to it before, but we're going to go deeper on Lang Chain.

And I'm going to introduce you to, to looking actually at vectors, putting them in chroma and visualizing

them in chroma.

As a reminder of what you can already do, you can already generate text.

You can generate code with frontier models, with assistance tools, with open source models, you can

confidently choose the right model for your project.

And at this point, you can explain the big idea behind Rag, the fact that you use vectors to do a

sort of semantic search.

A fuzzy search to find relevant content.

That's the big idea.

That's what we're going to use to go from that rather simplistic thing that we did yesterday.

There's something rather more powerful.

And by the end of today, you're going to be able to explain long chain, the good and the bad.

You're going to be able to work with popular encoders, embedding models as they're also known.

And you'll be able to divide documents into chunks, turn chunks into vectors, put vectors in a vector

data, store all of that all in one day.

And it's today.

Okay, before we dig in, let's do a super quick recap of what we went through yesterday.

I know you already get it, but it's important to reinforce.

So the user asks a question.

We did something pretty janky yesterday when we took that question.

We just sort of broke it into words and we saw, do we have anything about these words?

But that's not a great way of doing it because you may miss important information.

You really want to do some kind of a fuzzy search on that text.

Okay, here's a way to do that.

Bring in an encoding LL.M.

An and Lmw that creates a vector that represents the meaning of the question.

Turn the question into a vector.

Look that up in a vector data.

Store a database which is quick at finding similar information to the vector that you just passed in,

and then collect this information that we've got.

Pass that in the prompt to the LM.

And what we'll get back is something which is based on that context, that relevant context that we've

passed in in the prompt.

Okay.

Let's now talk about lang chains.

So you met Lang Chain briefly uh, earlier on.

But now we're going to go deeper on lang chain.

So Lang chains are an open source framework.

It was launched October 2022 by someone called Harrison Chase who who started this and then later formed

a company around it.

It is a common framework.

We sometimes call these abstraction layers that allows you to interface with many different models and

also stitch them together, building things like rag pipelines that we'll be doing.

And there was a new version of Lang Chain, released very recently, October 2025, which is quite significant

overhaul including repackaging much of Lang chain.

So there really is a kind of a pre 1.0 and a post 1.0, and we will work with 1.0 with the new version

of Lang Chain today as we dig in to this, this, this framework, um, this abstraction layer that

lets you glue together, chain together different llms to accomplish a business task and to introduce

the like the pros and cons of Lang chain, the good and the bad.

So a few a few pros.

First of all, Lang chain is something that makes it much quicker to glue together llms to accomplish

something.

So for things like assistants or for rag that will do or for summarization tasks, it means you can

get to market much quicker.

Things like using tools.

There's a there's a very robust set of tools that comes with it.

This sort of stuff very quick to do out of the box.

That's what Langshan gives you.

There's also a lot of adoption in the enterprise.

Langshan was extremely popular when it first came out, and during 2023, it really, really took off

in a big way.

So it's very common in enterprise.

A lot of projects use Langshan, so it's often it's a good, good resume material.

It's good to have it there.

It's something that you know how to do.

You will frequently come across it.

So in terms of some of the downsides of Langshan, probably the first thing I'll mention is that when

Langshan first came along in like 2223, it was quite different to make calls to to OpenAI and to anthropic

and to Gemini if you did it yourself.

And so there was a huge need for something like Langshan that unified and brought this together and

made it so you could switch around different models.

But since then, times have changed.

And now, as you've experienced yourself, because all the providers have OpenAI compatible endpoints,

it's incredibly simple to switch between different models just using the OpenAI Python client library,

and you can just switch out the base URL, which can just be configuration and move between different

providers.

So there's less need for this kind of abstraction layer built on top.

And also some of the other things that that this was, that was set out to, to simplify, like using

tools and using prompt templates, they've all sort of converged over time.

There are now very common patterns for doing all of these things.

So there's there's less of a need for long chain at this point.

So that's obviously a downside.

And the other downside is perhaps more debatable and is perhaps a matter of personal taste.

But Langston originally was considered to be a fairly lightweight abstraction layer.

But over time it has grown and grown, and it's now reasonably heavyweight.

It's pretty substantive in terms of everything it offers.

It has.

It has a lot of terminology, some concepts, some things to learn.

It even has its own language, LCL, that hasn't really taken off, but that's also part of it too.

And and some people do use that.

And so it's actually become quite a heavyweight abstraction layer.

There's a lot of learning.

There's quite a learning curve to go into the Lang chain ecosystem.

And nowadays there are other abstraction layers like light LM that we met that are really very lightweight

indeed.

And that can you can use things like light LM very easily with a tiny learning curve and switch between

different models, where lang chain is a lot more to sign up for.

And so as a result, lang chain has started to feel a bit more like it's like a legacy product with

with a big learning curve and with stuff that's kind of hung over from, from a prior age, like the

human message and AI message stuff.

If you know that which has been replaced really in people's minds with a very simple list of dicts that

we're so familiar with from OpenAI.

So from that point of view, Lang Chain can feel a bit heavy, quite a big learning curve.

There are lighter things available like light, little lamb and and some of it is perhaps less needed.

So I wanted to give you that kind of candid pros and cons.

You're going to get a personal first hand assessment of it yourself in the next few days.

As we work with it, it's as I say, you're going to see the best of Long Chain, and maybe you're also

going to see some some of the rough edges.

It's going to be so easy to build a rag pipeline.

We're going to have it all together, a couple of lines of code.

We're going to have ourselves a rag pipeline.

It's going to be fantastic.

But you may also see some of the bit of the learning curve terminology, extra stuff that comes with

the mix.

And of course, Lang chain itself is now it's part of the Lang Chain Company.

They have other offerings too.

They have Lang graph, which is something very different.

Uh, used to, to, to connect together agents in a dependency graph that we cover in my agent course,

they have Lang Smith, which is an observability platform.

Um, and they have some other things as well.

So, so there's, there's a big ecosystem built around Lang chain, and there's a lot to like about

it.

And a couple of things to watch out for as we will see.