And welcome to week five, day three.

Yesterday we did the first kind of half of Rag by taking documents, putting them into vectors, into

chroma.

Today we're finishing it off.

We're completing a Rag pipeline.

It's all going to happen today.

And I tell you, it's going to be remarkably simple.

I think you're going to be pleasantly surprised by how easy it is to build a Rag pipeline.

And as a quick reminder of what you've already done, you can already generate text, generate code

frontier models with open source models.

Using the Huggingface Transformers library, you can choose the right model for your project, backed

by metrics from leaderboards and benchmarks and so on.

And now.

And now you can explain how Rag uses vector embeddings.

It takes documents.

It turns documents into chunks.

It turns chunks into vectors.

It stores vectors in chroma.

Okay, today we're completing the picture.

By the end of today, you're going to be able to use Lang long chain to build a Rag pipeline, you're

going to be able to deliver a question answerer expert using Rag.

And best of all, you're going to be able to have a nice little gradio user interface, which is going

to be like a Rag application that not only will be able to answer questions with expertise, but it

will be able to show you the documents that it's sourced that expertise from.

Isn't that great?

We're going to do all that today.

Let's get started.

And don't kill me.

But we're going to start by one more time doing our recap of the big idea behind rag.

I know you say you get it.

Do we have to reuse redo the same slides again?

But yes, because sometimes repetition helps.

And just in case, because because some people still have some misconceptions about Rag.

And it's so important to have the foundations understood, the user asks a question.

It comes to our code.

We could take that question and just try and see if we can do a SQL query, if we can just do a text

search.

But that would miss important stuff.

There's a better way to do it.

There's a trick that involves using LMS, a different kind of LM, not the one we're used to the autoregressive,

but AR one that's sometimes called an encoder, sometimes called an embedding model.

There it is.

And we call it to turn the question into a vector.

And we can then say all right let's look in a database.

We've got of lots of other documents where we have indexed those documents by creating vectors of each

of them.

And we put them in a database that is particularly quick at finding documents with vectors, with indexes

that are close to the vector we pass in.

And we can use that to retrieve relevant contexts.

Put that in the prompt to the LM.

Get back the results that that's the big idea behind Rag.

And that's what we're going to implement today.

And then one more time to to remind you what we did yesterday, we read in all the documents in a bunch

of folders in four different folders.

We broke them up into chunks.

This very hacky process of just saying, all right, let's take the text and just sort of slice it up.

We use that recursive character text splitter that just looks for two empty lines, and then one empty

line and then spaces breaks it all up.

We do that.

We have some overlap between the chunks.

Do you remember that 1000 characters, 200 characters of overlap.

And then we use that to turn them into vectors.

And then we stored them in chroma.

And I banged on about the fact that there's a difference between the encoder.

The embedding model that makes the vectors and chroma the data store.

It could be it could be a bunch of other data stores.

That's where they get stored.

That's good at quick retrieval.

I said, you know, popular encoders.

We've got the OpenAI text embedding.

We looked at small and large, small three and large three.

We looked at we didn't look at Gemini embeddings, but they are great.

Uh, and then there's also hugging face all mini Ml6 V2, which we looked at first.

And I said separate to the encoders is the the vector stores the place where you put them and retrieve

them.

And we use chroma, the open source data store.

There's also Kudrin, there's vice, there's many others.

There's paid ones which are much more scalable and resilient.

But you have to pay for them.

You get what you pay for.

And there's pinecone.

We've yet many, many more.

And then I also mentioned that the mainstream databases themselves all support vectors to what you what

you sign up for here is more of an infrastructure decision, more of something which which relates to

things like the the costs involved, the support structure, the the performance.

And then some of them, I think I mentioned have more advanced features like elastic lets you filter

very quickly at the same time concurrently with looking for the nearest nearest vectors.

So these are the kinds of trade offs you take into account as you pick your vector store.

But separately to that, you pick your encoder, your embedding model, so that it gets the right kind

of vectors for the problem that you're working on.

And we'll talk more about that tomorrow.

Okay.

So we are now going to talk about Lang Chain.

We're going to use Lang Chain to implement our Rag pipeline, and I do want to make the point that it's

good to use long chain.

This was one of the first places where long chain really shined, because it was so easy to to use long

chain to build a rag pipeline.

And so it became very, very popular.

So it makes sense that I'm introducing it for this use case.

But I will make the point that it is actually also very easy to build a Rag pipeline without using long

chain.

It's not like long chain is an essential part of building Rag.

It does make things a bit quicker for us.

You'll see it's going to be just a couple of lines of code that's going to be it, but it would only

be a few more lines of code if we did it, like the manual brute force way, which is what we do in

in week eight.

And I say brute force, but it's honestly it's just a couple more lines of code.

It's not much more at all.

But anyways, for now we're going to focus on long chain and you'll see why people love Long chain.

We're going to take two of the key abstractions.

One of them is is an LM, uh, and that is like an object.

And in fact, we already met this.

We already used this abstraction in Lang Chain a couple of weeks ago when when I compared it with light

LM and we saw how you can you can use Lang chain just to sort of wrap an LM so you can swap in open

AI or anthropic or Lama or whatever in place.

And it will, it will respond in the same way.

And then another, another abstraction we're going to work with is something called a retriever.

And a retriever is an abstraction around chroma, the data store and also the embedding model.

That's all sort of wrapped up into this thing called the retriever.

So you can just ask the retriever to retrieve documents close to similar to another document retrieval.

So these are the two key abstractions.

And as with many of lang chains abstractions, it responds to a method invoke.

If you have an LLM, you can say my LLM dot invoke.

If you have a retriever, you can say my retriever dot invoke.

And there are many other objects in Lang chain that have this same behavior, uh, tools.

Uh, and many more.

That's it's a very common part of the framework.

It's actually so it's called a runnable in Lang chain if you can call invoke.

And in the prior version runnable was something that was very much surfaced.

So so you saw runnable in the in the code a lot and people talked about it.

But that appears they appear to have taken that out as a sort of main as an, as an interface, as something

that you, that you particularly refer to in the code in lang chain one zero.

Uh, so, so whilst we know that all of these things are runnable, that's, that's not a term that's

as commonly used in Lang chain 1.0.

And for sure we are going to be using Lang Chain 1.0, the new version of Lang chain.

So we'll have an we'll have a retriever.

It will take the method invoke.

There are other methods you can call as well like Stream and Invoke for async invoke.

We won't be doing those.

But but you can bear in mind that there are these common things that any of the major abstractions in

Lang Chain will respond to.

Okay.

But we'll be doing with we'll be dealing with LM and retriever.

We'll be invoking them.

Let's go and do that in cursor right now.