All right.

Here we are in.

So we're just going to have a quick look at Lang Chain before we continue.

And actually for me this is my first time using cursor version two which just came out for me.

But you've been using it all along I expect.

And at the top here I see that we can now flip between the editor we're on here and agents where you

you can have multiple agents running.

That's the new functionality.

Anyways, going into week five we're now on day two, it's vectors day.

This is when we continue work with our expert knowledge worker for the insurance company, Insure Life

Insurance.

And we're going to be now working with taking the data in the knowledge base and vectorizing it and

putting it in a vector store.

So there's going to be three parts to today.

We're going to first divide our documents into things called chunks, which are little little bits of

the document that are useful ready to be put in our vector data store.

And then we're going to turn those things into vectors.

Or we're going to at least have vectors associated with each one, and then put it in and chroma and

open source vector database that I'll talk about in a bit.

And then we will visualize our vectors.

But for now just part A let's divide our documents into chunks.

And you might be thinking why do we need to divide documents into chunks and to break them up into pieces?

And the reason is that imagine we've got these documents that they're going to have all sorts of different

bits of information on them.

We've already seen there's like employee HR records.

There's stuff about products.

When a user asks a question, it will probably pertain just to one part of one document.

And if we just built one one vector associated with a whole document, then it's much less likely that

a question is going to match directly with like an entire document like that.

So it makes sense for us to try and think about how could we split up each document so that we've got

the best chance that one particular fragment is something which can address a few different questions,

and we've got just the right granularity for that to be true.

And figuring out how to take documents and divide them into chunks is an example of of of one part of

working with Rag that is super experimental, full of trial and error.

There's no one rule to get chunking right, as we will see when we experiment with them.

Anyway, that's the quick introduction.

Here are some imports.

There's a ton of imports we're doing here, and a lot of these are long chain related imports.

Let's just take a quick look at them.

Lang chain has a number of different packages and the different packages.

You have to be pip installed or you've added separately.

And they typically have different sets of dependencies.

So there's one here for lang chain underscore OpenAI which is all of their classes related to OpenAI.

There's one for for Chromo the database we're going to be using.

There's one for hugging face classes.

There's there's a set of document loaders, which are its tools for loading documents, which are in

the Lang chain community, which is a bit like our community contributions.

It's where people have added in open source contributions and then text splitters, which is a particular

part of Lang Chain that's responsible for taking documents and turning them into chunks.

So, as I say, it's an example of how Lang chain is quite heavyweight, that there are many different

packages.

If you remember with light LM there was there was only one package and it was it was just super simple.

You import the one package, you can use any LM.

So it just gives you a sense there's a lot going on, there's a lot of functionality.

But it's it's there's also a lot to sort of learn about sign up for okay.

So we do these imports.

And interestingly it does take a fair bit of time to import all of this.

There's such a lot going on.

We're going to use GPT four one nano because we particularly want to do something which is going to

be cheap and fast.

And GPT four one nano is both of those things.

We're going to be storing our documents in a vector database, which we'll come to later.

It's going to be called vector DB.

And let's also check that we've got an open AI key we have.

All is good.

All right.

Next up we're going to load in our documents.

So before we use any Lang chain code at all, I just want to examine these documents.

First of all, I've got something here which is going to to use glob.

Glob.

If you remember that our way of a way of like walking through our directory structure for anything in

the knowledge base directory that contains that is a markdown file.

And we'll find out how many files we've got.

I'm going to load all of them in to one variable called entire knowledge base.

And I'm going to print how many characters do we have in the whole thing.

So there's 76 different files in this knowledge base.

And there's a total of 300,000 characters.

And I'm going to use a library called Tick token.

You might remember, I think we looked at that like we one uh, to, to look at how many tokens there

are in this and count up the number of tokens.

And there are apparently almost 64,000 tokens.

If you take the entire knowledge base and you tokenize it.

And for those that remember some of the leaderboards we looked at like, like Valium.

You'll you'll realize that actually, that is something which we could squeeze into the context window

for any of the major models.

So you could, in fact, put the entire knowledge base I've got here.

All of these directories, everything here could fit into a call to open AI.

Now it would start to be a little bit more, more pricey every time you call it.

With that entire context.

It's a bit like putting all of hamlet in every single time, but it could be done.

But the point here is that this data imagine that it was ten times bigger.

Imagine that it was 100 times bigger.

You would very quickly get to a point where you couldn't do it.

And now I didn't want to do that because it would it would be unwieldy and it would start costing costing

money.

Uh, but but that's what you have to keep in mind.

The idea of Rag is to be able to scale and support massive knowledge bases and still be able to get

expertise, still be able to get high quality answers when we call the LLM.

And indeed, in week eight, we're going to do a knowledge base with 400,000 documents.

So we are going to scale.

You will see that.

And in my AI in production course we also use use much bigger scale.

So so these this this example is like a medium scale just to give you a sense of it.

But just picture going up by by two orders of magnitude.

The same will apply.

Okay.

Finally time for some long chain code.

We're going to load in these documents and turn them into a long chain object called a document, which

represents each document.

And this code is doing it's not very much.

It's looks like there's a lot of code here.

Uh, okay.

But what we're doing is we've again, we've got we're using this glob glob to get a list of all of the

folders.

Each of these company contracts employees products into a variable called folders.

And then we're going to say for oh, sorry, I just spelt that wrong.

I somehow got that changed.

There we go.

Folders.

Uh, so we're going to uh, we're going to, to take a documents list, an empty list.

We're going to walk through each of these folders.

For each one, we're going to say that the document type will just be the the name of that directory

which whichever directory it is.

And then we're going to use this lang chain community class called directory loader, which is something

that can take a whole directory load in everything in there.

And this here makes sure that it works on PCs as well as Macs.

We will then bring that in.

And for each document we will we will set something called doc type to be the type of document.

And we will add that to to this list of documents.

Okay.

So if I'm then going to do print I'll do that cursor fill in for me.

Print that we've loaded however many documents we've loaded.

So this this is using the Lang chain loader classes to load in each of our documents.

It's not that much more more sophisticated than what we did yesterday when we just loaded in documents

as a string.

But each of these things, if we just look at one of them, let's look at Documents Zero and look at

it.

It is a Lang chain object called a document, it has metadata.

The source is where it came from.

The doc type, the thing that we just put in there ourselves.

This line right here, the doc type is the word products.

Because this first thing is a product.

And then page content is the complete contents of that page.

So those are the fields in this object document.

And you can check this out yourself and, and go through them and look at them and get a sense of what

we have just loaded into the documents list.

And now it's time to split each document into chunks.

And splitting something into chunks is, uh, again, it's very experimental.

It's very empirical.

You try different things.

There are a number of different things called text splitters, which are different classes in long chain

that let you break down a document into smaller pieces.

The very simplest one is just called the character text splitter.

And it does basically what it says on the tin.

It just chops it up by characters.

There's a slightly more sophisticated version called the recursive character text splitter.

Again, it sounds it sounds like it's something fancy, this one, but it's not.

It's it's recursive and it just tries to.

It first tries to split things by wherever there's a couple of empty lines between sections, and then

it tries to do it by just one empty line and then just by end of sentences and things like that.

So it has like a sort of hierarchy of how it tries to split up documents so that it's doing its best

job at trying to break it where it thinks there's a natural break in the documents and you tell it.

How many characters do you want roughly in each chunk, and how much overlap would you like there to

be between different chunks?

Because if you think about it, when you when we ask a question, there might be it's possible that

a question will be answered by, by one paragraph.

Uh, or it might be the answer, you know, if we if we just split the document, it's possible that

the answer to our question would be somewhere in the middle, and that would be problematic.

So by having an overlap with each of our chunks, we make it less likely that we would sort of chop

an answer in half, but that it should often be the case that a particular question will map nicely

to at least one chunk.

So this is all some of the thought process that goes into chunking.

But as you will, as you will discover, if you're wondering like what's the process for this?

The answer is going to be trial and error.

You experiment, you try different chunking strategies and see which one works best.

And I know what you're thinking.

You're thinking, okay, but what does it mean to work best?

How do you know that a chunking strategy is working best?

And that's an excellent thought for you to have.

And fear not, we will cover that.

That is one of the most essential aspects of of a Rag workflow that we'll be covering later in the week.

But enough enough talk.

Let me run this.

We have just divided our documents, our 76 documents into 413 chunks.

And here's the first one.

It's just a chunk of the product summary.

It's a chunk of this thing right here.

Uh, so that's one of them.

Let's, let's go through and just look at another one.

Let's look at chunks.

Uh, whatever.

Number 100.

Let's see what number 100 is.

It's a chunk out of, um, the source, uh, thing and the source, the source document.

And it begins with seven business continuity.

So it's just a fragment of the document, 413 chunks.

What happens if we change the chunk size down to 800?

Then we end up with 532 chunks, more chunks, because they each have a smaller size.

And we'll put it back to 1000.

And you should try this out.

Get a sense of it, get a sense of what this chunk overlap looks like.

Convince yourself there's nothing very clever going on here.

It is basically just dividing up the documents.

You get different numbers of chunks if you have a different chunk size.

Um, and, and uh, you can use you can, you can look up the different kinds of text splitter that

you could try out here if you wanted to get deeper into this idea of turning documents into useful chunks.

Okay.

That is our first quick look at Lang Chain.

We're going to go back and explore a little bit more about vector embeddings and vectors.

And then we'll come right back here.