Okay, so you followed everything so far.

You understand that these encoder models, these vector embeddings, set of numbers that represent the

meaning of the input.

But what does it mean to say that numbers represent meaning?

Well, let's drill down on that.

How how do these vectors represent the meaning of the input?

Well first up it can be referring to a character, an individual character, the meaning of a character,

the meaning of a token, the meaning of a word or a sentence or a paragraph or a document or something

abstract.

In my day job at Nebula, we have vectors that represent different opportunities, different job postings,

and vectors that represent people at different points in their career.

People's careers are represented by by a vector.

So vectors can can represent like like something very abstract as well.

And the vectors and I said that there could be three numbers and represent like a point in space with

a x, y, and a z coordinate.

Uh, it can also have hundreds of dimensions.

It can even have thousands of dimensions.

And so that's just basically saying it's a thousand numbers that represent this, this, this block

of text.

But those 1000 numbers you could think of as representing a point not in three dimensional space, but

in 1000 dimensional space, whatever that really means.

And okay, so these represent the and some sort of an understanding of the inputs.

And this is how in that points numbers that are close to each other would represent things with a similar

meaning.

What does that mean.

Well if you imagine let's suppose it was just three numbers.

So it really was an x, y and z coordinate.

I keep saying z with American, but I would say x, y and a z coordinate.

Uh, if it's got if it's got these, these, these points, then points that are close to each other

would represent things that mean the same thing, even if the words themselves were completely different.

So if you have a sentence like what are ticket prices to travel from New York to London, then that

might be represented by a point right here.

And you could have a completely different sentence that's like, what's the price of a flight from JFK

to Heathrow Airport?

Different words, different concepts, but the same meaning.

And that if that were turned into a point, it should be a point that's very close in this three dimensional

space to the first point.

Points close to each other should represent things with a similar meaning.

That's the idea.

The model is trained so that it produces numbers that have this property.

There is another way that these vectors represent the meaning of their inputs.

And it's a bit subtle.

And it was first discovered some time ago, in fact, in the before before Transformers before LMS when

we were working in the field was called NLP Natural Language Processing.

In some ways the predecessor to what we're doing at the moment.

But but there was this algorithm called word to vec and word to vec.

As I say, it's like like the predecessor to all this.

It was something which would just take an individual word, uh, like a token representing a word,

and map that to a vector.

So each word was mapped to a vector.

So you would, for example, perhaps have a vector for the word orange.

And if you looked in the space at points similar to that, there would be similar things to an orange.

They would be perhaps other fruits like, like, like mandarin and, and tangerine or whatever, might

be similar to to to orange along with other colors perhaps.

So.

So there was a simple way that any one word could be mapped to a vector.

And people discovered something about this that was that was intriguing and and surprising.

And with apologies to those that already know this well, but still, let me just quickly go through

it.

So let's suppose that you take the word king.

So king maps to some point in space.

Imagine it's just three dimensional.

It's probably thousands, but let's put it right here in space.

This is King and presumably close to that.

A similar things like prince and emperor and maybe Charles or whatever.

So so you've got you've got the word king and similar concepts around it.

And now let's suppose somewhere else completely different in space.

Other words, man and woman, two different words.

I'm placing them here and here also with with similar things around them man and woman.

Okay, so here's the thing.

You can you can do maths with these vectors where you add and subtract them, which for people that

are familiar with vectors knows that that means you're sort of moving around in the space, uh, by,

by, uh, by this, this amount.

So we can take the word king.

We can subtract the location of the vector for the word man, subtracting that x, y, and z coordinate,

and add in the word woman.

It's x, y, and z or z coordinate.

So we're basically taking.

We're subtracting man and adding woman, which is the same as moving in this direction.

But we're doing it to the point king.

So it's king.

Take out the concept man.

Add the concept woman and you end up over here somewhere.

And here's the spooky part.

If you looked at the closest point to this point in vector space, you ended up with a point for the

word queen.

So king minus man plus woman was queen.

And so it's as if you can, you can mess around with meanings by by taking one of these vectors, taking

out one meaning, adding in another meaning, and you're sort of moving the meaning from one to another.

And similarly, you could take the word, uh, Paris.

Paris.

Subtract the concept of France.

Add the concept of England.

And lo and behold, you end up with London as your closest point.

And it works.

And it's crazy the first time you see this.

And you play around with words and you see this working and you're like, no way.

And so it's in that sense that these points represent the meaning of the input.

It seems to represent it such that similar things are close by.

And also so you can sort of take out meanings and add them in and it just works and it doesn't, you

know, with word two vec it worked.

It worked for words.

But nowadays with encoder models, the same kind of thing works for entire paragraphs of text.

You could take a paragraph of text, it could be mapped to a vector, and you can then remove some meaning

and add in some other meaning.

It doesn't matter what the actual words you choose.

It matters the meaning that it represents, and you will move to another vector that reflects this,

this new meaning of some input with something removed and something added in and so on.

So there we go.

In summary, these are the ways in which these vectors, these sets of numbers reflect the meaning of

the inputs.

And if I lost you a little bit there, it really doesn't matter.

All you need to know is that these encoders, they take a input and they map it to a set of numbers

that we call a vector embedding, but it's just a set of numbers such that numbers close to each other

mean similar things.

And the arrows amongst you will point out that it's it's not quite as simple as just the points close

to each other.

We use something called cosine similarity to decide if something's close, which is just slightly different,

but it's basically that's a technicality.

You don't.

We'll come back to that later.

It's not super important as far as we're concerned.

Similar numbers means similar concepts.