And welcome back to and welcome back to right where we left off before I did that little detour.

Uh, so you remember, of course, that we just took our documents.

We broke them into chunks.

I think you got the idea of chunks now.

413 of them.

Uh, there they all are.

We are now going to make vectors and store this in chroma.

And we're going to use the open source embedding model or mini lm, l6 v2 from Huggingface.

Now, look, I do believe that you do not need to be logged in to Huggingface to use this model.

It's something that's just available publicly.

Uh, but just in case, if you have if you do get any hugging face login, uh, error, then you remember

that in week three we set up a hugging face token.

HF token, please.

If you get a problem with logging in, then add that token to your EMV file and be sure to rerun EMV.

But I don't think it's needed.

It shouldn't shouldn't happen to you.

We'll need this for week eight anyway, so you might want to do it anyway.

But but but regardless.

Okay.

So we're going to start by creating a new variable embeddings.

And we're going to create an instance of this hugging face embeddings object.

And this is part of Langerhans Code.

And we tell it the model name.

We want to use the all mini lm, l6, v2.

There it is.

And what we do here, this is saying uh, it's checking to see whether or not there is already uh,

a thing called vector underscore db, which is what we called our database.

And I do have that because I've run this before and it says if it exists then come in and make sure

we wipe it so that we're starting fresh.

So that allows you to run this many times again and again.

And every time it will wipe it if it exists.

And if not, it will create a new one.

Okay.

And now look at this line the vector store.

We're creating a vector store.

We use this this word chroma.

This is another it's a long chain object that represents the chroma database a free open source database

that actually has SQLite running behind it that will just get created just like that on your computer

without you needing to do any more work.

Chromium documents.

And the thing we pass in as our documents that we want to create in our vector data store is the chunks

that we just made are how many were there?

400 and something chunks 413.

Chunks 413 chunks.

We passed them in and we also pass in the embedding model, the encoder, this thing here, the hugging

face embeddings.

And we tell it the name of the directory where it's stored.

That is how we create our chroma database with the chunks, with the embeddings, with the directory

name to create.

That's what we do.

And this is when I say that it's easy with with encode to sort of conflate the database with the embedding

model.

You can see you just sort of pass it all in together to create chroma.

But this embedding model isn't isn't really associated with chroma.

It's different.

It just it could be any embedding model we could pass in there.

Anyway, let's run this.

It's now going.

It's taking all of those documents, all 413 of them, turning them into vectors, putting them in the

vector store.

That's happened.

It just all happened.

And this directory vector db, if I open it up, it's full of SQL Lite sort of stuff, which is in fact

a database with 413 chunks in it.

How about that?

If you just ran that, you just created your very first vector data store.

Congrats.

So next we're just going to dig into the vector data store to look at what we've got here.

So a collection is the name of like.

Like what in relational databases we would think of as like a table.

So we've got we've only got one collection.

So we bring it in as a, as a variable collection.

And we asked for its count.

How many things do we have.

And we also just get one one of the of the objects in there.

One of them we find out how many dimensions does it have.

Let's have a look.

So we've got 413 vectors in Cromer with 384 dimensions.

Mentions.

So that means there's like 384 numbers associated with each of those vectors.

And if again, I know I think you know this, but those 384 dimensions, that's not a that's not a feature

of Cromer.

Cromer can take vectors of any size.

It's a feature of the hugging face all mini lm, l6, v2 embedding model that turns text into this 384

dimensional vector.

That's where the vectors have come from.

Okay, now for the best part.

It's time for us to visualize.

So I am a big believer in visualizing your data and seeing it and exploring it, something that we will

be doing many times over the next few weeks.

And this is no exception.

And visualizing information represented in vectors can be particularly insightful and interesting.

Gives you a way to spot outliers and interesting trends or problematic trends.

It's just a great thing to do.

And it's also from an education point of view, it's very, very helpful to give you like a real intuition

for what does it mean to have our data represented by vectors?

What does that actually mean?

Well, you're going to see it and it's going to give you some clues.

So first up I'm going to just just just pull out from our database a list of the vectors, a list of

the documents which really the chunks, the metadata associated with each one.

Um, the doc types.

And then I'm also going to have a color, uh, that will pick based on whether it's a product, employee,

contract or company.

So that is what we will do.

Um, and uh, what we're now going to do is, is bring this up just to see what it looks like visually.

But there's a problem and, and, and the problem is with you and me, uh, the problem is that we humans,

we humans have a limitation that we're not very good at seeing anything above three dimensions.

We can't see things in 384 dimensions because we don't have any idea what that even means?

Uh, so that is that is a problem.

But luckily, mathematicians have come along to to put us out of our misery.

There is a technique.

There are a few techniques.

There's one called PCA, there's one called t-SNE, which we're going to use.

t-SNE stands for T-distributed.

Stochastic neighbor embedding just rolls off the tongue.

You don't need to know that you don't know what it stands for, but what you do need to know is that

t-SNE is a very popular technique for taking higher dimensional data and projecting it down, say,

to two dimensions, um, such that things that are close together in 2D are likely to be close together

in multi-dimensional space, and things that are far apart in 2D are likely to be far apart.

It's a statistical technique.

You can you can Google it to read all about it.

On Wikipedia.

It's very common.

Uh, so we are going to to run t-SNE and we're going to ask it to, to project down to two dimensions.

It's going to use, uh, this random state means it should, should come up with the same answer each

time.

Uh, and we are then going to plot it so that we can see what this looks like when it's displayed in

2D.

Okay, here we go.

We run it and bam!

This appears.

Now you may see some warnings.

It may give you some hugging face related warning about something about threads.

Ignore that.

It's nothing you often get warnings with with sort of open source software.

The frontier and warnings can can usually be just just noted down in case something goes wrong later

to come back to.

In this case, it's nothing.

All right.

Anyway, take a moment to absorb this.

And it's like, wow, what are you looking at here?

What is this?

So this is like a, like a map of our data.

And if you move your mouse over it, you will see that each one is showing you that the type at the

top, this is an employee document and the text associated with this chunk.

And you can see that all like 400 chunks are being displayed here.

And if you if you some people say what is the meaning of the x axis and the y axis?

There is no meaning of these axes.

It's just the data as it's distributed there.

What?

What matters is what's close to each other, because that should be information that is similar in meaning.

So that's the thing to to really get your head around and to, to, uh, browse around.

Um, and here's the thing.

The, the text that was sent to our encoder model, remember, it's the encoder that made the vector.

It's been stored in chroma, but the encoder made the vector.

That text was just the text of the chunk.

It's based on the text of the chunk.

It wasn't told that some of these are employees.

Some of these are companies, some of these are contracts and some of these are products.

So it's pretty interesting that some of the data has been separated out quite nicely.

Like you'll see that generally the employees are all together here.

Now there's some company related information no doubt.

If you dig into it you'll see that it's quite employee related, but some of it has ended up around

here.

But most of it is clustered up here.

And then you'll see some of the other stuff around here.

So generally speaking it's separated things out.

There is something which looks like a bit of a stripe of the product data that seems to come in between

some of the different sections of contracts.

So there's some separation by, by meaning based on the type of document.

Uh, and you will hopefully get a good sense by looking around here are the different integration services,

parts of different contracts.

And you can see how they're close to each other in the vector space.

So take a moment.

Take some time to look through this.

Examine the chunks.

See that chunks with a similar meaning are close to each other, and get a sense for what does it mean

to have this information, these vectors stored in chroma, keeping in mind that the vectors are stored

in chroma, but the vectors were made by the hugging face or mini V2 model.

That's what built these vectors that we're looking at right here.