Well, I imagine you are pleasantly surprised by how easy it's been to build a rag pipeline, and you

may be thinking to yourself, I wonder that's that's all well and good, but we've been doing it very

much in a notebook and in experimental way, and hopefully you're comfortable doing that.

It's important to be able to have an experimenter's hat on, but there comes a point when you want to

take the hat off and put on like, like something that's ready to to engineer this and to be ready to

implement it in production.

And to do so, we would want to do that in Python modules.

And so that is what I've done.

I've taken the code we put in the notebook, and I've turned them into modules for us to look at.

And that is the way that you would do it yourself as well.

If you're building proper ingest pipes.

And the the way I've done it is I've made two different Python modules and I've put them in a single

directory called implementation, a package, a Python package implementation.

And the reason I've done that is because later this week we are going to improve on this rag and we're

going to want to have a different implementation.

And I want to be able to swap it.

And I want you to make an implementation as well and make it even better.

And so this allows us to be able to have like swappable implementations in one directory.

There are two modules that we will have in this directory.

Okay.

What are these two modules.

So the first of them is called ingest.py.

And that's basically like the lab that we did not today but yesterday.

The one that is going to read in a knowledge base, turn documents into chunks, turn chunks into vectors,

store them in chroma that will all be in ingest.

Py you can do.

You've run, ingest py and it's going to do all that.

And it could be part of your, your your Rag pipeline, your data ingest pipeline that has new files

arrive.

This automatically gets called and it runs.

The other module is called answer.py.

And it's a very simple module.

It has two key functions that could be called by the outside world.

One of them is called fetch context.

Given a question we'll get relevant context and the other is called answer question.

Given a question and some history, it will fetch relevant context and answer the question that is in

answer.

And the idea is that you could change this.

You could write your own ingestor to ingest the data and your own answer to accompany it, using consistent

encoder and so on.

You just have to implement fetch context and answer question and everything else will work.

So that's that's the scaffolding that I put in place.

And those are the two modules that I have written.

So how will we actually use these modules.

Well I've got a few ways that we'll be able to to put these into practice.

And the one we'll do today is that I've made a gradio application called App.py, which is in in the

week five, and the parent directory to implementation and App.py will bring up a nice Gradio user interface.

And we'll call answer.py to get answers to questions.

And we can always swap out with a different implementation and still keep that same UI.

And it's.

So that means that that ultimately we're going to be able to do two different, uh, UV runs.

We'll be able to say UV run ingests Py will actually do that from within the implementation directory.

So we'll do CD implementation.

And then you've run ingest.py and it will run the whole ingest.

And you could imagine this could be something if you had data pipes.

This could be something that is automatically triggered whenever a file changes in that directory.

Or a cron job runs this every hour or something like that.

So.

So this will automatically populate our Chrome data store.

And then from the week five directory, the parent directory we can do you've run App.py.

And that of course will launch our UI.

Okay.

Let's go and have a look at this.

So in week five there is this folder implementation.

And sure enough it just has these two classes two class two modules.

Ingest and answer.

Let's start by looking at ingest.

And this really is just the stuff from lab to lab.

One was when we did the fake version.

Lab two was the proper version.

You can look at lab two and compare it.

You'll see that it's basically the same stuff.

I've tidied it up a little bit to put it in ingest pie.

Um, this is this is a way to make sure we've got the right path to our database and our knowledge base.

This is where we are creating the embeddings, the hugging face embeddings.

And then you can see I've got fetch documents, fetches the documents using lang chains code create

chunks using the recursive character text splitter.

The chunk size is 1000, an overlap of 200 characters per chunk, and we split up the documents that

gives us the chunks, create the embeddings, deletes chroma if it's already there, and then creates

chroma passing in the chunks, passing in the embeddings, passing in the directory name.

And then it prints that we've created the vectors with the dimensions.

And then if this is you've run, what should it do.

Well it should fetch the documents, create the chunks from those documents, create the embeddings

from those chunks.

And then we're done.

That's that's what ingest Pie does.

Should we see it working.

Let's have a shot.

Okay, so first of all, we bring up a new terminal window and cursor that is control shift and backtick

to have a new terminal.

Uh, or you can also go to the view menu and select terminal to open a terminal.

And we start in the LM engineering directory.

So we do CD week five to go into week five.

And then we're going to go into the implementation directory CD implementation.

If I do an LZ you'll see we have ingest Pi and Pi are right there.

We do.

You've run ingest dot pi and take a drum roll and off it goes.

So it's doing a fetch documents.

Then it's going to do create chunks of those documents then create embeddings.

And then it will print ingestion complete as it prints faster than I can say.

All of that.

And it says there are 413 vectors with 384 dimensions in the vector store.

That is a successful ingest run.

Okay, time to look at answer dot pi.

So control and backtick again takes out that terminal.

Or you can just press the bin or the X button over there.

Go to answer.py.

Let's have a look at this.

As I say, it is just the same code from lab three here.

Same same set of imports.

Slightly fancier way of making sure we're looking at the right place for the vector database in a platform

independent way.

Uh, same same model right here.

All mini LM L62.

Note that there are those two different places.

If we change this model two two places to change it.

Retrieval.

Okay I have separated this.

This is how many chunks get included.

Get retrieved and included in the prompt.

I think we saw that it was it was doing for before.

You can actually specify how many chunks you want.

And here we're specifying five same system prompt as before.

As before we create the vector store the retriever and the LM.

These are the two key objects that that we needed to build that we can call invoke on and fetch.

Context is one of those functions I told you about the big, big, big functions.

We're implementing.

It takes a question and it just calls retriever dot invoke for that question.

And this is where we pass in k.

K is five so that five chunks are retrieved.

And then this is the other big thing.

Answer question.

It takes a question and it takes some history.

So I've got something here.

It's a little bit more than the five lines.

You might say.

There's more than five lines.

There are a few more lines now because there's a couple of things that I'm doing differently here,

which relates to slight problems with that naive Gradio app from last time.

I wonder if you found them.

If you were playing with it, you might have very quickly discovered that there were a couple of hitches

with it.

So the first hitch, of course, is that we were completely ignoring history.

So if the user said, if you said like, like, um, who is who is Avery?

And then you said, and what did she do before?

It wouldn't be able to answer that because it wouldn't know who.

Every time.

It was like a completely fresh message.

We weren't passing in the conversation history every quarter.

An LLM is stateless.

It would have been just like when I said my name is Ed.

Who am I?

A couple of weeks ago, you saw that it just doesn't work at all.

So this time I have I have done this properly.

We take in the history and we do actually make use of it.

Um, so lang chain, this is passed in as the normal list of dicts from the open AI format.

Lang chain doesn't like that Lang chain likes its fancy type of messages with with that human message

object and an AI message object.

And there's actually a convenient way of saying, um, the convert to messages.

So lang chain object that I that I lang chain function that I imported here convert to messages.

And if you do that then it converts open AI style messages into lang chain style messages.

So we do that.

And then when I call invoke LM invoke I'm calling that with the proper formatted messages, with the

original, with the system message, and then with all of the history converted into Lang chain format.

That's not clear to you.

Put in a few print statements.

When you run it a few times, you'll see exactly what I mean.

Changing it from being the OpenAI format that Gradio passes in into being the Lang chain format of these

system message and human messages and AI messages in a list.

So that's what this does, and it packages it up nicely so we can call invoke.

There's one other thing I'm doing which you may have spotted.

This extra function I put in called Combined question.

And this one is kind of subtle.

And you might want to implement this differently.

This kind of depends on how you want to do things.

See if you can figure out what's going on there.

So the answer is this is this is a subtle thing which Lang used to to do behind the scenes in a way

that that meant that you didn't have as much control over it.

So I like the fact that it's very much in our hands with this implementation.

So the question is, when you're looking up the relevant context, should you only do that based on

the most recent question from the user, or do you need to look at all of the conversations so far and

look up the context based on that?

Or perhaps you should do it individually for each of those questions and gather all of that context.

There's different ways to do it, and it really depends on the use case.

It depends on what you're trying to do.

It depends on the scenario.

So there's no right answer.

So I used to have this that it only looked at the context based on the most recent message you gave.

But that wasn't great because you could say something like, uh, who is Avery?

And it would it would answer, of course.

And then you could say, and what did she do before?

And even though it's getting the full history so it knows we're talking about Avery, when it looks

up the context, it's looking it up on the on the statement, what did she do before.

And there's no relevant context for that.

It doesn't know that that's Avery.

So perhaps a better way to do it is when fetching the context, don't just fetch context based on the

most recent message, fetch context based on all the things the user has said so far, package that

up.

put it into a combined question, and fetch the context on that combined question.

So again, if that's not super clear to you, put in some print statements.

You'll see exactly what I mean.

When I'm looking up in Chrome.

I don't just look up based on the most recent question from the user, I do it based on everything the

user has said.

And maybe if you're one step ahead of me, you can think there's a better way of doing that and there

is a better way of doing it.

And we may we may mention that later in the week, perhaps when we think of more advanced implementations.

But you can puzzle right now and see if you can figure out what would be a nicer way of doing it, to

make sure that we do query well on something really good that's based perhaps on the most recent thing,

perhaps on some of the the history as well.

Have a think about that.

We will revisit for now.

Uh, let's press on.

We've got our answer question function.

I think what's what's what's left surely is for us to try this out.

And what better way to try it out than in a nice Gradio UI?