Well, just before we bring up our Whizzy interface, let me just show you a less whizzy one.

Uh, what's broken with day three's notebook that we looked at before?

You remember that we had our very nice, elegant, simple five line question answering that did just

fine, and we brought up a nice UI on it.

And here it is.

And we could say, who is Avery?

And it's gonna do just fine.

It's gonna, of course, do a rag lookup.

It's going to give us a great answer.

Well, check this out.

If I say how much is her salary?

Uh, we are going to get something, uh, odd back.

Samantha Green's current salary is 70,000.

What is that about?

Two things have gone on that are a problem here.

The two things that I showed you, we fixed, uh, in the in the proper module implementation, the

two problems with this, uh, with this simplistic version.

First of all, it wasn't even looking at the history that didn't get passed to the LM.

So when I say her there, it has no idea that I'm still referring to Avery, but even if it had known,

it would still have had a problem, because that this is the text that's being used for the Rag lookup.

And because of that, it's just picking some random document with salary in it.

The first one that happens to be Samantha Green.

And that's why we're getting a, uh, like a, like a red herring of an answer, something that seems

to be a completely different topic.

So those are the two problems.

We're not maintaining conversation history when we call the LM, but also we're looking up context based

off this.

So the two fixes that I just showed you in that longer version, first of them is to build up the proper

history and pass that into lang chain using that Lang chain conversion function.

And secondly, I'm not just looking up the context on this.

I'm looking at the context on the combination of all of this text so that it would in fact include Avery

in there.

That's why I did it.

Now you see it broken.

Let's see how it looks in the new Gradio UI.

And so I bring up a new terminal with shift control Backtick.

Where is it?

There it is.

Okay.

And now I go into week five and now I do UV run app Dot Pi, and it's going to spring up a new window,

I hope.

After a small pause while Gradio chugs into gear and there it is.

Bam!

Here we go!

The ensure expert assistant.

A nice little UI, and we've got a conversation on the left and we've got retrieved.

Context will appear here on the right.

Isn't that cool?

All right, so obviously I could say who is aviary and we'll see how it does okay.

What have we got.

So we get a good answer.

Of course we know this answer.

And on the right here relevant context, we have the information coming back here along with its source,

the place that it came from.

And this white text is what was actually provided in the context to the LM.

The orange is is just a note of the metadata showing us the source of where it came from.

But this was not provided to to the LM, just these white blobs.

Here it all is.

This is all the information that was passed about Avery.

How many chunks do we have?

We have one, two.

Three.

Four.

Five.

Five.

Five chunks were retrieved because we set K to five.

Beautiful.

And now I can come back here and I can say.

And what is her salary?

And we hope that we will see a combination of things.

Avery Lancaster's current salary is 2.25.

We see that the relevant context it's retrieved is related to this text and this text.

So it's still all about Avery.

The current salary is right up there in the second chunk.

And so it also the the chat was sent with history to uh for one nano.

And it was able to say we're talking about Avery for sure.

And I've got the context.

I know her salary.

That's how it responds.

This is rag with history with lookup.

Fantastic.

It's working.

Now let me go back into cursor.

I just want to go into the knowledge base, into the employees, and I want to find one employee document

in particular.

I want to find Maxine Thompson.

Here she is.

Here is Maxine Thompson.

Let's bring that up in a nice markdown style.

Let's have a look.

This is her HR record.

We'll get the terminal out of the way there.

Uh, if we look around here, you'll see that she was recognized as the inaugural innovator of the year

in 2023, receiving a prestigious IIoT award, the inaugural innovator of the year award in 2023.

Good for Maxine.

Now, I wonder whether or not the the R rag pipeline is going to be able to retrieve that.

That is a challenging one.

Let's find out.

Let's go back to the terminal.

Let's start our Gradio app up.

Here we go.

And then we're going to ask the question.

We are going to say okay then tell us who won the prestigious I o t y award.

Give it that.

Let's see what it can do.

It says Maxine was recognized.

It gets that right.

And you can see over on the right what's going on that it's coming up and we'll see right there that,

uh, it found the details in here somewhere.

Uh, there we go.

It's because she received the prestigious award.

Was also mentioned in her promotion, and it's got it right there with her name.

But you may notice something that's not perfect about this.

You may notice that it says Maxine, but it doesn't say Maxine Thompson.

It doesn't realize her full name.

And that's that's this slightly tiresome thing that this chunk that it that it found here mentions that

she received that award in this rather nice small chunk, but it doesn't have her full name in that

chunk, because her full name was at the top of the HR document and not in the middle.

And this is an example of a nasty little problem with Rag with chunking that the chunk might answer

the question, but it might not contain some crucial context from elsewhere in the document, meaning

that you get back an okay but not perfect answer.

So that's an interesting one for us to observe.

It's okay, but it's not as complete as it could be.

And there are other problems too.

There are some problems with the way that I did that history lookup, and that's slightly hacky way.

Suppose I start a new conversation and I say, uh, who is Avery?

Uh, like like this.

Uh, who is Avery?

And we get back on the right and answer and then say, uh, and what did Avery do before?

We'll get back some more conversation about Avery before founding Ensure Elm, she worked as a senior

product manager or coming from similar chunks, working well.

And now we'll say who won the prestigious.

Award and see how it does.

And strangely, it hasn't got the answer.

It doesn't know.

Why has that happened?

Well, that's because I made that change.

So that when I'm retrieving context, I combine this and this and this.

And now the thing that I'm looking up in my data store, it's got too much other stuff other than I.o.t.

It's got too much about aviary.

And so if we look over on the right, it's still finding chunks about aviary.

That's not very satisfactory.

So we have a problem.

The the change that I made has made it better at looking up context that relates to the whole conversation,

but in doing so it's made it poorer.

If you then change the topic and want to talk about something completely different, it's still dredging

up context from earlier in the conversation and that's no good.

So how would you fix that?

There are many ways to fix it, but there are some ways are better than others, and we will work on

problems like this over the course of the next couple of days.

But the real takeaway I have for you is that rag is something that can be quite hit and miss.

And we're going to really double down on this tomorrow.

But but it's it's important to recognize that Rag is this very experimental, really quite hacky approach

of trying to look up relevant context.

And it can frequently go wrong.

You can get good examples of rag working really, really well.

Like it's surfacing that Maxine won the award.

But you can also see that it didn't quite get her full name.

It wasn't complete.

And then after we've talked about Avery for a bit, it's not able to find out who won the Coty Award.

So so it's quite easy to get it off track.

So the, the, the right way to approach Rag is to come up with each problem like this as a new problem

to be solved.

And it's a bit like whack a mole, you find something and then you fix it, and then you find another

problem and you fix that.

And sometimes in fixing one problem, you cause another problem, as we just have as I, as I fix that

that history, I then I then created this new problem.

So a lot about Rag is getting after these kinds of puzzles and making your rag system better and better

through a series of different techniques.

That's what Rag is all about.

And there's a technique to allow us to do that in a more scientific way.

And that's what we'll be covering tomorrow.

And in the meantime, before I leave the screen, the mission for you before we go to tomorrow is to

bring up this user interface.

You've run App.py.

After doing a CD implementation, you've run, ingest py to populate your data store.

Then do a you've run app.py and experiment and find the rough edges.

Find what it's good at, find what it's bad at.

Look at the chunks on the right.

Understand why are chunks getting surfaced?

Try and get really great examples of rag doing an amazing job at showing deep expertise about information

buried in the documents, but then also find cases where it foolishly is unable to answer something

that's clearly there in the documents, and get a really good sense for what's working well.

And what are the blind spots?

What are the rough edges and have that on our list because we're going to get after them, fix them

as we make our rag better and better, starting tomorrow and before tomorrow.

I do hope that you're going to take a moment, uh, to, you know, if you're a wine drinker, then

I'd say it deserves a nice glass of wine.

Uh, maybe even a glass of champagne.

You have built a rag product.

You can do this.

You can now write your own ingest dot pi.

You can write your own app.py and your dot pi and have something which is able to vectorize, chunk,

vectorize, store a bunch of documents, and then you can ask questions on them.

And it apparently has expertise across your entire knowledge base and only you.

You secretly know that it doesn't at any one time have knowledge of the whole knowledge base.

It's doing this trick of using vector similarity to do a semantic search over your data, pluck out

a few chunks of relevant context, shove them in the prompt, getting back an answer based on that knowledge

each time.

It's it's a trick.

It's a conjuring trick.

It works really well, and it gives the impression that you've got something that's an expert on your

entire knowledge base, but it has some rough edges.

So as a recap, you can now generate code, generate text with front end models.

With open source models, you can use tools.

You can confidently choose the right model for your projects and and add it to the list.

You can implement a Rag expert question answering system and the secret, the dark secret.

Just.

Just between you and me is that it's actually quite easy from next time.

Next time though, we're going to get more disciplined.

You can explain the importance of evaluations evals.

So critical going to be able to measure the effectiveness of your Rag system.

And we'll be able to experiment with things like encoders and chunking strategies and use our metrics

use our evaluations to to be able to to to gauge how much difference we're making and to be able to

make decisions about different solutions we want to build.

All right.

Lots of stuff.

Tomorrow it's going to be really, really great.

Um, very much looking forward to it.

I hope you are too.

I will see you then.