Okay, so enough theoretical stuff on vectors.

Now I'm gonna make it real.

Now I'm gonna give you the big idea behind rag.

And what makes rag so interesting?

Here's the point.

Remember this diagram?

Remember the little idea behind rag?

The user asks a question.

We look it up in our database.

Okay.

Now we're going to do something just slightly different.

The user asks a question and let's say what they what they ask is what a ticket prices to Heathrow the

name of London's airport.

If you didn't get that.

What a ticket prices to Heathrow.

Okay.

And and we know if we look that up in our database then there's going to be a problem because our database

has ticket prices to London, not to Heathrow.

So we're not going to find the word Heathrow in there.

Okay.

So we don't just take that question and look it up in the database.

First we find a useful encoder model and encoding LM or embedding LM, whatever you call it.

We use that we turn the question into a vector, we take that question.

We turn it into a set of numbers that represents its meaning.

And separately, we took all of our database, all of our knowledge base.

And for everything in that database, we found vectors associated with that.

And what we've put in our data store is the text, the information about ticket prices or whatever,

along with the vector that represents that text.

We've got all of that in our data store.

And when you do that, when you have these vectors referring to each of these bits of data, we call

it a vector data store.

And that's what we've got.

And what we do is we say, okay, okay, vector data store, tell me, what information do you have

that is closest to this point of this question?

We've just taken a question.

We've turned it into a point.

What information do you have that's near that in your vector data store?

Because stuff that you have that's close to that is going to be things which have a similar meaning,

even if there's a different choice of words.

If the user said ticket prices to Heathrow Airport, it's still going to find prices to, to to the

airport in London or whatever.

That's going to be close to the points.

And so it's going to find that information.

And so this is the kind of fuzzy lookup that I mentioned before.

You're not just doing a string match.

You're trying to understand the meaning of the question.

And you're asking, what information do I have in my database that has similar meaning to the meaning

of the question?

And you get that you retrieve the text from the vector data, store the text associated with these vectors,

and you put that in your prompts to the LLM.

So it's now got the ticket prices to London.

The question how much does it cost to travel to Heathrow.

This might be relevant context.

Ticket prices to London is all in there.

That was found in the vector data store.

Back comes the response with the right answer.

And here is a super important point that confuses even some pros.

I just want to make this very, very clear to you.

This encoder encoding LM that you see there, it has nothing to do with the LM on the right.

The auto regressive LM, if you remember, is the full name for that.

It's got nothing to do with that.

That encoder, LM is being used just to help with this fuzzy search.

We're using that to turn the question into a vector.

And we've already used that same encoder to to turn all of the data that we've got in our database into

vectors as well.

So we're using this trick, this trick of using these vectors to pluck out relevant information.

And then that's what's getting sent to the LM on the right.

So what's going to the LM on the right is not vectors.

The LM doesn't wouldn't know what to do with a bunch of numbers.

It just it just talks natural language.

The input has to be language.

What's being passed in is the user's question what's the ticket prices to to Heathrow.

And then relevant information plucked from the vector data store the the natural language, the English

associated with that.

That's what's going to the LM on the right.

So the purpose of this encoder is to help us with this trick of finding relevant content, not necessarily

content that has exactly the same words, but content that has the same meaning.

That's what we're using it for.

And what gets sent to the LM on the right is just useful context in the form of natural language.

And so that's it for the first day of week five of Rag Week.

That's enough.

You've got your basic intuition now about vectors and about using that for a rag lookup a retrieval

augmented generation.

Don't worry if you didn't understand everything because we're going to actually get into this.

We're going to create vectors.

We're going to store vectors.

And by the time we're done with it you're going to know this stuff.

So, so well, uh, what you can already do, of course, is generate text and code with frontier models,

use tools, use open source models with with hugging face transformers.

You can choose the right model for your project backed by facts.

And now you can explain about this business of vector embeddings and how you use a vector data store.

Look up things similar to a user's question to put in a prompt to the LSM.

By next time we'll we'll have unveiled Lang chain properly.

We took a peek at it before we're going to we're going to go into it.

We're going to use it to actually take a knowledge base, turn it into vectors and put it in a data

store and a vector store called chroma.

And what I want to leave you with is just have a think about, uh, as you mull over rag and what it

is, one of the things that you might start to think is hang on, it feels like all this is a bit of

a hack.

It's it's it's not very scientific.

We're doing this business of taking a user's question and turning it into a vector in order to try and

make a guess about what's what sort of what's likely, what's plausible to be useful to put to shove

in a prompt to an LLM.

And so you might be thinking to yourself, this, this all sounds like, like, like a bit of a bit

of a hack, uh, you know, to avoid having to put everything in the context just to sort of subselect.

And the answer is, you're exactly right.

It is all a bit of a hack is, is is really one big hack.

And in fact, as you're going to discover later this week, rag comes with a with a whole zoo of hacks.

There's hack upon hack upon hack to try and get better and better at picking the right, relevant context.

It really is just this, this very hokey business of trying to use trickery with encoder models to figure

out the most likely contexts that's going to be useful to the LM.

So keep that in mind.

This is very much it's very empirical, which is our way of saying that it's very experimental.

It's it's really quite a lot of trial and error.

And you're going to get a really good sense for that when we actually try and build our proper rag pipeline,

uh, tomorrow and the day after.

All right.

I will see you tomorrow for vectors.