And here we are back in cursor.

We're going to week five.

We're going to day three.

Welcome to day three.

We're building our expert question answerer for ensure Elm.

It's going to be a long chain one zero implementation of a Rag pipeline using the vector store we created

last time.

Now, you may remember last time when we made our vector store, we first used a encoder from Huggingface,

the all mini Ml6 v2.

Then we went back and did it again with a couple of OpenAI models that were a lot better.

Well, I've actually just gone back and rerun it with the original model because I don't know which

one you will have ended up using.

And just in case you stuck with the original, the weaker one, that's what.

That's what I've run it with right now.

You can choose.

You can go back and do that if you wish, or stick with what you've got up to you.

All right.

Let's start with some imports.

So there's a bunch of of long chain imports here.

And these are interesting ones.

So this first one from Lang chain OpenAI import chat OpenAI.

Now that that is the the LM abstraction I mentioned.

Chat.

OpenAI is one of the llms that you can create.

It will respond to invoke from Cromer import Cromer.

We had that abstraction last time.

Uh, this is something to do with some, some, some messages that we're going to play with.

And these are the embeddings models that we already looked at.

I'll just mention that.

So I'll run these imports.

There they go.

Um, so, uh, it takes a few seconds.

There's a lot to import.

Uh, so, so to show you here, we've got OpenAI import chat.

OpenAI.

You could also have here from Lang Chain.

Uh, llama imports llama I spelt Lang chain wrong, but it is still filled it in.

Uh, and I could say from lang chain underscore anthropic import chat anthropic.

Uh, if you do this you could simply replace chat OpenAI with Chat llama or Chat Anthropic and it will

just work that that is really the promise of long chain that these abstractions are very swappable.

They all respond to invoke, and that allows you to to manipulate things quite easily, similar to the

way abstractions like light LM do it, but with with long chain it is a bit more heavyweight.

It's a completely different package that you have to to install and import.

Okay.

So I'll take that out.

Uh, hopefully you get that.

And now we're going to set some constants and then we're going to get going with our rag okay.

Now first up we are going to create the embeddings object, the all mini lm l6 v2 object.

And we're also going to connect to Cromer with embeddings object.

You can see as I say I'm using this hugging face open source one.

So if you're still using the OpenAI embeddings you need to make sure to use the OpenAI embeddings object

here, import it and then use it here.

Uh, or else if you want to use this one, you do.

You may have to go back and recreate your database.

It's just important that you use the same consistent one, because if you've got vectors in your database

that are the OpenAI 3000 dimension vectors, and now we use this one here, this will be used when we

come up with a query.

We take our question.

We turn it into a vector.

Well if they're different models then trouble will ensue.

You're going to create like this 300 dimensional vector from hugging face.

And you're going to be trying to compare it to 3000 dimension vectors, completely different vectors.

You remember how different they looked in the image as well.

Completely different in your in your vector data store.

And there's going to be an error.

There's going to be a nasty ugly stack trace about mismatch in dimensions.

And you're going to come back to me and say, Ed, what's going on?

And I'm going to say you've got different vector models, so don't do that.

Uh, make sure that they're consistent.

So let's run this.

And now we are going to have created our embeddings.

And we have loaded our data store in the same directory.

This directory is vector db.

You can see it right there.

We've loaded that in.

And we've also told it about the embeddings model that we are using.

Okay.

It's time now for us to create the two big long chain objects the LM and the retriever.

There they both are.

Let's create them.

So you can see that I create the retriever object by doing vector store, the chroma vector store dot

as retriever.

And that just packages it up into a retriever object, an object that we can just call dot invoke on.

And it will do a rag lookup.

So easy and with with chat with with with chat open AI.

All we have to do is just create it like this.

We pass in the model name and I'm also passing in something called temperature and that is making the

LM.

So what is this temperature?

I think it's come up from time to time and I'm not sure I've ever properly explained it.

So so let me just take one minute on temperature right now.

So temperature is it's probably something you've heard about a fair bit, because all of the LMS take

temperature as an input, and it's something that controls how how much variety there is in the output

that comes from the model.

It's a parameter that controls how different it will be each time you call it.

A temperature of zero means that it should be predictable, deterministic, and a higher temperature

means there should be more variety, more more flavor, more differences in the answers.

Each time you call it.

Now some people describe this as as creativity, a higher temperature for more creative output.

I don't think that's quite right.

It's not wrong, but I think it's a bit misleading.

So I'd rather clarify just just so that it's clear for you.

So what's it actually doing?

Well, it's actually controlling at inference time when you're generating each token by token, it's

to do with how you pick which token comes next.

A model, an LM doesn't actually spit out the next token as I think you know, what it actually spits

out is the probability of all the possible next tokens.

Every possible next word gets some probability, even if it's a very small probability.

But everything gets something.

Uh, and typically when I've loosely said, we pick the next token when I'm what I'm sort of referring

to is you could just always just pick the token that got the highest probability, the one that the

model said is the most likely next token.

And with a temperature of zero, all you ever do is pick whichever token got the highest probability,

and you pick that one and that one every single time.

And that is called a temperature of zero.

The most predictable and sort of reliable and deterministic output.

And a higher temperature means that you occasionally pick tokens which, which didn't get the top probability,

but maybe got the second top or something like that.

And in fact, in the case of OpenAI, the temperature varies from 0 to 2, and a temperature of one

means that if a token were given a 10% probability, then you would pick that 110% of the time you actually

sample what token comes next based on the probabilities that they got.

So if a token got 1% probability, it was really unlikely.

Still 1 in 100 times.

You might pick that one if temperature is one.

So there's more more variety in what comes out.

And and indeed that that might mean that it's more creative, but not necessarily.

It really just means that the word choices will be different, and sometimes perhaps a bit odd if the

temperature is high enough.

In fact, with the temperature coming up to two, you can get quite strange answers.

So that's that's what temperature means and what it controls.

And to add two notes to this.

One of them is that, uh, I've used words like deterministic and reproducible.

That's also not quite right, because even with a temperature of zero, the output won't necessarily

be reproducible.

Because there is there is, there is random.

There are random numbers involved in running llms.

You can do something called setting a random seed, which means that the random numbers will be the

same each time.

And indeed we will do that in weeks 6 to 8.

And that can be particularly important when you're testing and trying to make sure that you really do

get the same answer each time.

So so we will be setting random seeds later and you will see that.

And even when you set a random seed, it's still not guaranteed to be the same every time.

Because there are changes at the frontier model in the labs, they change their models.

And also because there are performance optimizations that mean that lots of calculations happen in parallel

in a way that can't always be guaranteed, that the same things will come out exactly the same way.

And so as a result, nothing is ever fully guaranteed to be reproducible.

But if you have a temperature of zero and you do this thing called setting a random seed, then you're

pretty likely to get the same answer every time.

And we will be doing that later in the course.

But for now, we're setting temperature of zero, which is quite common with Rag systems, because you

do want to have a sort of stronger guarantee around reliability, but it's also typical to see temperatures

around 0.5 0.7 as well.

And I mentioned that that temperature isn't really the same as creativity.

If you're looking for your model to be more creative and have higher creativity, the right way to do

that is through the system prompt.

The right way to do that is to instruct the model to be creative.

Give it examples of what it means to you to be creative.

That's what creativity should be all about.

And if you want it to give different answers, the best way to do that is to tell it the prior answers

it gave and say, I now want something different.

That's the most reliable way to do it.

You can use temperature for that kind of thing, but it's just not as reliable in my experience.

Better to focus on prompting if you want to have a particular behavior from your model.

Okay, this was a sidebar, but I think it was a very important sidebar, so I'm pleased we did it.

Let's press on.

Now with the big step of creating our two abstractions, the retriever and the LM, I ran it, it's

done.