Okay.

So we created our retriever object and our LLM object.

And I promised you that you could just call invoke on either of these objects.

And you may think, well, let me see that.

I'm not sure I believe you.

Well then we'll go and do it.

So here we go.

Retriever Dot invoke.

Who is aviary.

So what will a retriever do if we say to it who is aviary?

What do you think?

What?

What?

What should it do?

That's right.

Exactly.

It should retrieve relevant context.

Something relevant to who is aviary.

So let's run it and bam!

What comes back is for document objects.

They each have an ID, they have metadata, and they have a source.

And you can see that the first one has been pulled from the the document and they have page content.

These are in fact long document objects that we met yesterday.

And they are the chunks that represents the four different chunks that have been found closest to that

question.

Who is Avery?

So what actually happened when we called in Vogue?

It took that fragment.

Who is Avery?

It then used the the retrievers encoder that we had set up here.

So the embedding function, which is Omni v2 to turn it into a vector, it then called chroma to find

the closest vectors.

And that is what it is now.

Then located those documents and it's printing them there.

Very cool, very easy.

All right.

And now we're going to call.

Who is Avery.

So what's that going to do then.

Have a think about that.

What do you think it's going to print.

All right.

You've had your thought and maybe it's not what you expected.

It depends, uh, how much you've been, uh, seeing everything that's going on here.

So it doesn't tell us about Avery Lancaster.

Have you thought that was going to be the moment?

Uh, but no, because, look, we this is this LM is just chat OpenAI based on a model.

We haven't told anything about our retriever.

The al-alam abstraction is just an abstraction around OpenAI, or around a llama, or around an anthropic

or any one of many, many, many different models that you could you could use with long chain Gemini,

whatever.

Um, and so what we have got back is just a generic answer to calling like OpenAI create with who is

aviary?

We get back.

Aviary is a given name that can be used for both males and females.

It may also refer to blah blah blah blah blah blah.

So in other words, that was, uh, definitely no rag happening there.

So we've got our two objects, two long chain objects, either of which can be invoked.

So what's left to be done?

Well, basically we have to put them together.

We need to use both of these in something which is known as rag.

Let's do this okay.

You ready.

We're going to start with just a constant variable called system prompt template.

It's going to describe our system prompt.

Some of this used to be packaged for you in the previous version of chain.

And now I think the idiomatic way to do it lang chain one is to write it yourself, which I much prefer.

I much prefer it when these things aren't hidden from us, so I'm quite happy with the fact that we

get to write our own prompt here.

So the system prompt template is you are a knowledgeable, friendly assistant representing the company

in your realm.

You're chatting with the user about ensure realm.

If relevant, use the given context to answer any question.

If you don't know the answer, say so and context.

And then there is a little, little placeholder that we'll replace with the word con with with with

the context that we find from our retriever.

Okay.

That's it.

That's a constant.

And this, this function here, this I present to you rag.

Rag in what is that that five lines of code.

That's all there is.

Okay.

So I'm saying this this is a function called answer question.

It's given a question.

It's also given this variable called history that we're going to ignore.

You may think why is that?

But you probably have guessed why already.

But anyway, so we are going to first take our retriever object.

This is one of the two big long chain abstractions we're working with and we call invoke on that question.

And we already know what we get back.

We get back some documents that are that are relevant, okay.

And we will just smash them together, taking the page content and, and wallop them together with empty

lines between them.

So it's just the chunks laid out there in this variable context.

Okay.

So far so good.

Very easy.

Next up look we'll take this system prompt template that I've got just up here.

And we will we will just change that.

We will substitute in the context as the context that we've just created right here.

It's just basically taking the result of this and squashing it in here in sort of fancy Python.

That's what this line here does.

We've now got a system prompt that is going to be all of this with the retrieved documents in there.

And now we do LM invoke and we pass this in as the system message.

And we pass in this question as what Lang chain calls the human message, which we just known as, as,

as user.

We're used to it being being user.

But Lang Chain has this idea of a system message and a human message.

Uh, instead of a list of Dix, it's a list of these objects, these Lang chain objects, and we return

response content.

That is the result, uh, that is lang chains idiomatic, uh, way of plucking out the result from this

response.

And that is all there is to it.

We're basically calling invoke on the retriever and invoke on the LM.

And we're kind of stitching them together.

And I'm running that now.

Okay.

Are you ready to try this out?

I was born ready.

You're thinking.

Yes.

Okay, so we're going to call it answer question with who is Avery?

And we're hoping for a slightly better response than this, uh, this given name thing up here.

Let's have a look at what we get.

Who is Avery?

Avery Lancaster is the co-founder and chief executive officer of insurer Elm.

She's been with the company since its founding and has played a key role.

Blah blah blah, blah, blah.

Yes it works.

We have just done Rag.

We've just done retrieval, augmented generation, five lines of code.

That is the magic of of long chains, abstractions making it so easy for us.

Uh, and, uh, yeah, I hope that you're thinking, wait, what is is it that easy?

It really is that easy.

The long chain parts of this is the nice little packaging around doing an invoke and an invoke this

system message, human message is is very much lancioni kind of stuff, but you can probably appreciate

that it wouldn't have been much more just to do this yourself.

Just to build the system prompt template, do the query in chroma and then do a.

Create pass in the system prompt and the user message.

We could have done that too.

It would have been maybe ten lines of code instead of five.

Lang made it even more elegant and simple and quick.

But rag is just not that difficult, and I'm sure it's no surprise to you.

But I can also change this to who is Lancaster, and presumably it will be able to to handle.

Lancaster refers to Avery Lancaster quite easily.

So unlike the nasty hack we did two days ago just searching for the word Lancaster, it can handle the

first name, it can handle the last name.

And I imagine if we do, who is Avery Lancaster?

But we now spell her name wrong like this.

I imagine it's going to be able to handle that.

It seems there might be a typo in the name based on the information I have.

You might be referring to Avery Lancaster.

Isn't that amazing?

Isn't that incredible?

That is fuzzy matching at work.

That is because it found the vector for Avery.

Lancaster was close to the vector for Avery, spelt wrong Lancaster.

Even though the words were different.

And you can you can go to town experimenting with this and get a sense of what works and what doesn't,

how far you can take it with.

Of course, we're relying on the fact that the all mini LM, L6, v2 is pretty good at this kind of

thing, but if you're using the OpenAI embeddings model, it'll be even better.

And I know what you're waiting for.

You, you you knew why I put that history in there, at least.

Maybe you did.

Uh, it's because, of course, what?

We can come next.

Is that anything you're familiar with?

The fact that, uh, that that with with Gradio, we have a chat function that takes the message and

the history.

Well, there's nothing magic about the word chat.

It doesn't need it to be called chat.

It can be called anything as long as it takes a question and the history.

So we can just simply create a chat interface and pass in answer question as the callback function,

it should call with the question and the history.

Uh, and uh, yeah, just, just, um, I know you get this, but look, let me just do this.

Let me do return bananas in here.

If I if this has returned bananas, then if I launch a user interface here and I say hi there, it will

say bananas.

Who are who is Avery bananas?

Uh, I'm sure you get this, but some of you might have skipped week two, and so you might not be not,

not be used to.

Uh gradio.

So just in case that's just a show.

That's all that's going on here.

I take that out.

Now, this is the function that Gradio will call run that instead bring up a fresh interface.

We are now going to say who is Avery?

And if it says bananas, I'll be very surprised.

Uh, and, uh, we'll see what happens.

Avery Lancaster is the co-founder chief executive officer of ensure.

L'm there.

You have it.

What is market?

L'm.

Uh, that's one of the products, I believe.

Oh, did I spell it wrong?

Uh, there we go.

I spelt it wrong.

Market l'm ensures innovative insurance marketplace.

So?

So it's a great example.

Uh, which, of course, was intentional, uh, of how the vector data store is able to handle typos

and look up the proper product name, even if I get the product name wrong.

Uh, beautiful.

We've seen rag at work through a graphical user interface.

We've seen it being able to take a question, turn it into a vector, look it up in chroma, find associated

relevant context, put that in the system prompt, send that off to an LLM and get back an answer which

shows expertise in the area.

That is Rag in a nutshell, and not only in a nutshell, but also rag in five lines of code.

Courtesy of Long-chain.