Okay.

Well, that was your first look at Lang Chain and your first look at the document Splitters part of

Lang Chain.

We were able to load in a bunch of documents, split them into chunks, chunks that are like fragments

of the document.

And we use the recursive character text splitter that's able to to try first with, with double empty

lines and then single empty lines and then spaces to try and divide things down into a certain number

of characters with a bit of overlap between them.

To try and sensibly divide up our documents into fragments, chunks of text that are likely to map to

questions.

Okay, put all of that to one side.

We're changing topic.

We'll come back.

We're changing topic.

We're going to talk about encoders or embedding models that I introduced yesterday, models which are

good at taking text and turning them into a set of numbers that we can think of like it's a vector.

It's a location in space sometimes known as a vector embedding.

And this is something which which these models are very good at doing.

And we, uh, we I do want to distinguish very carefully, and this is going to be a bit of a recurring

theme today between these two different steps.

Turning text into a vector that uses an encoder, and then storing that vector in a vector database

such as chroma, which is one we'll be using.

A vector database is a particular type of database that's very quick at doing queries, not SQL queries.

In a way you may be familiar, but queries about which piece of data has a vector closest to this one,

so they are quick at vector based retrieval.

That's their point, but they don't themselves come up with the vectors.

The vector isn't created by chroma.

The vector is created by an encoder model, an LLM.

That's what creates the vector.

So there are these two different things to think about the encoder model and the vector database.

And they are separate.

When we look at the code it's somewhat conflates these two because you create them at the same time

and associate them together.

So it can get confusing to keep in mind that the vector database is where they get stored, but it's

not where they're created.

They're created by an encoder model.

So just to rattle off a few encoder models, there's this word to vec, which is where it all began,

a model which can take a word and turn it into a vector.

It's not used for this purpose, but for historical reasons.

This is the thing I mentioned with the king minus man plus woman is queen.

Then Bert came out in 2018.

This was Google's transformer model.

That was an encoder that was so powerful and is still somewhat used today.

But modern encoders, there are many of them.

These are the ones you might come across most often.

OpenAI has a bunch of encoders.

They've got one called Text embedding, three small, uh, and they've got a companion called Text embedding

three large.

And we will use both of these at some point, I imagine.

Uh, Google has one called Gemini Embedding 001, which is there.

They're embedding model that's very popular.

And then Hugging Face has a ton of open source encoders in a package called hugging Face sentence Transformers.

And the one that is, I think, most popular, certainly the one that we all use and the one that I'm

sure you'll come across many, many times is called the All mini lm, l6 v2.

Very popular indeed.

So these are some of the most common encoders you're likely to come across.

Okay.

We are now going to use long chain to take what we've just built and put it in a vector data store.

So we already read in the documents across all of the folders.

We already divided them into these chunks.

We turned documents into little, little bits.

From it broken down.

We use the recursive character text splitter again uh, which which looks for double enters and then

and then single character turns and then spaces.

We've got these chunks that are all about 1000 characters long with 200 character overlaps.

Hopefully you've gone in, you've dug in, you've looked at them, you've examined the chunks.

You've satisfied yourself that they do make up these documents.

Now the final step is to turn them into vectors and store them in a database.

And again I say the final step, but you really do need to remember it's two different things.

An encoder or an embedding model that's turning the text into a vector.

And then a vector store the database where they are stored, which is able to quickly look up things

that are close to each other in the vector data store.

And so to to again recap the popular encoders I mentioned OpenAI's ones Gemini has one.

The hugging face all.

Many Ml6 v2 very popular.

And then there are popular vector data stores or vector stores.

So there's a lot of these.

And I often get the question which vector data store should I use.

Which one is best.

And again it comes back.

I think people often get confused between the encoder and the vector store.

You really need to worry a lot about which encoder or which embedding model is best for your problem.

Different embedding models will perform very differently in different use cases, and that needs a lot

of experimenting and testing, as we'll be doing this week.

The choice of vector store database.

This is more like any other database choice.

This is more an infrastructure choice about trading off cost and performance.

There are open source entrants that chroma will use today.

So easy to use and of course free open source.

You just put it.

There is another one that's pretty popular.

Um, Fyss is very popular.

It's Facebook's.

It stands for Facebook AI similarity search from meta before the name change, I guess.

And Fyss sounds better than mice.

Uh uh, so uh, so Fyss is also it's very popular, but it is not really a database.

It's just an in-memory, uh, version that is able to just take vectors and do in-memory vector search.

So these are some of the most popular open source ones.

There are paid offerings that are paid products like Pinecone and Alleviate, and there are a lot you

can, you can, you can Google it or ask ChatGPT to to tell you some of the best.

There are lots of them.

Um, pinecone.

They're both very, very popular.

And these are paid offerings.

And so you pay to be able to to scale to so they are managed database offerings.

Um, and very, very much more powerful.

So if you're looking for, for an enterprise vector data store, you might consider this.

But I have to say it's less common in recent years.

Uh, a recent year, I should say this is all very new, uh, because nowadays the mainstream database

providers all support vectors natively, and so there's less of a need to sort of adopt a pure vector

database like a pinecone, because the mainstream databases like Postgres, you can put vectors in Postgres

as a relational database.

Uh, Mongo a NoSQL database, you can a document based database.

You can put vectors there to uh, at at Nebula.

In my day job we use Elasticsearch, the high performance search platform.

And that takes vectors natively.

And so we have like 200 million vectors.

And we're able to do a search that filters and finds similar vectors.

And it does it just in a couple of seconds.

It's blazingly fast.

Um, and so it's just like like a native search engine which also natively supports vector similarity.

And so the point I want to drive home here, a lot of people do ask me about vector data store choice.

And I just want to say that that most of the time what matters is the encoder, the embedding model.

That's what you really need to care about.

That's what you need to test, as we will this week and really understand what are the which embedding

model is going to work best for your business problem and surface the most relevant content, the data

store it goes into.

This is more of a concern of a typical Infrastructure data base decision.

It's more about your cost, your performance, your ability to scale, your resiliency, the backups,

the security, all those kinds of concerns as you would for any database.

And so it's more of that kind of infrastructure choice that could work with whichever encoder you pick.

Now there are some exceptions to that.

The pros are probably waiting to jump in and, and correct me with some situations in which some of

the high end, uh, platforms that can support different kinds of similarity search, uh, special performance

optimized searches when they, when they only look in certain regions of space, that kind of thing.

So it's certainly true.

There is some overlap, but it's relatively light most of the time.

What you should be spending your, your, your, um, energy focused on as a, as a, as an AI engineer

is the embedding model.

How are you creating vectors from text and the database decision?

It's more of a kind of infrastructure call a trade off between cost and performance.