Well, hopefully you are as happy with this as I am.

I do find these these visualizations really cool.

Make it a bit bigger.

Why not?

And close that that sidecar.

There we go.

Now we really get it in its full glory.

All the different points there.

I hope that you've you've taken a moment to to really dig in to this data visualization, but maybe

there's something a little bit cooler we can do as well.

It's probably not lost on you that we humans, as I mentioned before, are able to go one bit further

than 2D.

We can see things in 3D, and I wouldn't be doing my job if I didn't, uh, bring for you a 3D representation

of this as well.

And t-SNE is able to do that simply by passing in a number of components, three instead of two.

Uh, and we can project our 384 dimensional space down to 3D and see how that would look.

So let's take a look.

Here it is coming right up.

Bam!

There I present to you, uh, our points are 400 chunks shown in 3D space.

And I hear you.

You may, may say, oh, at first blush, this looks a bit of a mess.

Uh, I prefer the 2D version.

Uh, but but wait, uh, you could, first of all, hover over these points to get their descriptions

like this and see where they are in the space.

But also, you can rotate the whole space around like that, check that out and get a real sense for

you.

Really get a better sense for how those blues, whilst they are a little bit in the middle of the red,

they are somewhat in their own cluster.

Um, and the yellows also have their own sort of distribution.

Uh, and you can really hone in by, by zooming in like this.

Check this out, come in and explore the different points.

And so even though these yellows seem like they were a bit closer to the reds, they really don't look

at it.

Now you can see how they're distributed differently.

So even though the 2D is a little bit easier to look at than the 3D, you can explore and And investigate

so much more with the 3D, and I encourage you to have fun with this.

Of course, the sort of the proper use of this is to spot anomalies.

Spot how?

Well, uh, different, different documents are being grouped by similarity.

Dig in and try and find mistakes and gives you clues as to how you could potentially use different encoders.

But it's also great fun, and it gives good intuition for what it means to have these vectors.

And again, you can think of it like we're visualizing these vectors as they are in chroma.

Just always keep in mind that we're visualizing indeed these vectors as they've been stored in chroma.

But the vectors weren't created by chroma.

The vectors were created by the hugging face sentence transformers model or mini lm, l6 v2.

That's what turned our 400 or so chunks into these points in 304 dimensional space.

And now for my next trick.

Uh, I want to to drill down on this idea that it's the The encoder that decides where these points

are in space.

And what better way to illustrate that than to try a different encoder?

So let's go back and let's try the different encoder back.

Back we go here and I'm going to comment out where we set the embedding model.

And here let's start by looking at the text embedding three small model from OpenAI.

Let's check this out.

Let's run this.

And this code you remember is going to delete my database.

Create a new database with 413 documents.

Again the same chunks that are gone in.

Let's run this again.

Remember you can see here we had 384 dimensions before.

From the hugging face model we now have 1536 dimensions.

Because we're using a different embedding model.

We're using a paid one.

But it's very, very cheap from OpenAI.

Text embedding three small.

All.

Okay, let's go back to visualize again.

We'll do the pre-work to get our documents.

And now here we are.

So before I run this cell, let's take another look right here at how it looks before.

This is how it looked before.

We're now going to run this and generate a new visualization of the new vectors, as they are from the

OpenAI small model instead.

Okay.

Are you ready for this?

Keep this in your mind.

Keep keep that picture.

If you've got a photographic memory, hopefully it's there.

Let's run this again and see what it looks like now.

Okay.

It's happened.

There we have it.

Okay.

It looks completely different.

So first off, the fact that it's all rotated around is doesn't mean anything.

Remember the actual x and y coordinates don't have any meaning.

What matters is the how separated the documents are.

And look at how much better OpenAI's model has done.

Look at how the employee documents are all the way over here.

Look at how the, uh, the contracts are here.

And you can see now that the products are in a quite a different place.

Uh, except for some documents over here.

And what you'll find if you look into this is that this specifically, these parts here are specifically

around the features of the products.

And that's going to be very similar to the text around here, which is the parts of the contract which

relate to features.

So you'll find that when you're using a model like like OpenAI, it's really very good.

The OpenAI embeddings model and associating meaning.

And over here you'll see that the company stuff is all here.

In this one strip, you'll see that there's a couple of of employee records here.

And these are going to be chunks of the employee record that seem to relate to information about the

company.

Uh, if you dig into it, I expect you'll find that.

But let's go back up now and let's make one more change and change to the to to the large model and

see how that looks.

So here I am back in the embedding model section we'll go for text embedding three large.

Let's run this.

And we are now hopefully going to be converting our 413 documents into bigger vectors.

Well how much bigger.

Let's have a look.

Before we had 1536 dimensions associated with with each vector, we now have 3072 dimensions, 3072

dimensions in the vector store associated with each of our 413 chunks.

Okay, it's time to visualize.

Remember how it looks.

This is how it looks with the small variants.

Let's have a look with the large variant.

Uh, and here it is.

Okay.

Uh, so again it's another step.

Better see how again, first of all, as before, the employees are over on the left.

Now it doesn't matter.

They are clearly very separate except for these two pieces, which is the stuff that, um, you can

see the word ensure is in both of these.

So these are the the two fragments of an employee document that seem to be most about the company as

a whole.

You can see now that the separation between blue and red is even stronger.

The smarter model has done an even better job of understanding the different semantic meaning between

these chunks.

Um, and over here you'll see that this this is indeed still parts of the product that is about the

functionality which seems to belong most with the contracts.

So you can see that that's why it's done that.

Look here again, it's, it's part of the, of the product.

And this is the parts of the contracts that are about the product, which is why they're all around

the same territory.

So absolutely fascinating.

You can see what a better job the large model has done.

And so we really see how we've, we've we've stepped up between the small hugging face model, then

the small version of OpenAI, which is still pretty big, and then the large version with 3072 dimensions

and and how that's allowed the data to be so separated.

And it's worth pointing out, it can be tempting to think that the reason that the large model is better

is because it has more dimensions.

It is typically the case that like, like, like a larger model will produce vector embeddings with

higher dimensionality that allows it to express things with, with, with more degrees of freedom.

But that's not always the case.

And it doesn't need to be the case.

It matters that it is a more advanced transformer that is a better at capturing the meaning of the text,

and being able to express that in more dimensions, I suppose, gives it more power to do it.

So they are often somewhat related.

But we did move between about 400 dimensions, originally 384 for the hugging face model to about 1000

dimensions, 1005 to about 3000 dimensions.

As we move through those three embedding models, I know, I know exactly what you're waiting for me

to do.

You're waiting for me to make the 3D plot.

I'm thinking of it too.

Let's do this and let's go in.

Remember the old 3D plot?

This is the old one with the hugging face model.

A bit of a mess.

Let's now create a new 3D plot.

I know it's what you're waiting for.

Here it is.

Well, you know, it's still a little bit messy because these 3D plots can be.

But check this out.

Look at what happens if I maneuver us around.

Look at how cleanly separated those four blobs are.

Again, some overlap between contracts and the products.

And that's because there is some overlap in those types of documents.

Contracts contain some product related information in them, as you will see if you dig into these documents.

But generally speaking, this is just amazing to see.

It really gives you this, this, this good sense of what it means to take the meaning of a document,

turn it into a vector in space.

I hope you like it, and I do encourage you to explore this more.

Now keep working through this.

Look at different points where there are points close together.

Satisfy yourself that the content of those chunks is similar, and get a good sense of what it's what

it takes for a model to position some data somewhere in vector space.

And that is a wrap on this great day.

I hope you agree that that my intro was was was true.

It was a lot of fun today.

Those vector visualizations, that's what it's all about.

Uh, I very much encourage you to experiment with different encoders now.

Go, go and try some different embedding models.

You can look them up, you can do different open source ones.

Or you could try and do like the Gemini one if you've got a Gemini account.

Experiment with them and then look at the visualizations.

Playing with with encoder models is terrific fun and getting a good sense, a good intuition for for

how they represent information differently.

Anyways, to recap, at this point you can generate texts and code with frontier models, assistants

and tools, open source models, hugging face transformers.

You can choose the right model for your projects using benchmarks leaderboards.

You can explain how Rag uses vector embeddings and vector data stores to turn text into documents,

into chunks, to turn chunks, into vectors, to put vectors in a data store how vectors is like the

index in to data.

And we've used chroma, the open source database, perhaps your first vector database that you've now

got running on your computer.

Fantastic.

Next time, next time we actually build a Rag pipeline, we use Lang Chain to build a Rag pipeline.

Super easy.

We deliver like a rag based expert question answerer and you'll be able to to and we'll create like

a Gradio based chatbot app that will show not only the answers to questions, but also it'll be able

to show the documents that it used.

That's reference that helped it answer the question.

The relevant context surfaced by our Rag pipeline.

We're going to do all of that tomorrow.

And at this point, you are 55% of your way through to being an LLM engineer.

See you tomorrow.