Okay.

The time has arrived for us to cover vectors.

This is the big idea.

It's the big idea behind rag.

It's the idea which allows us to do this sort of fuzzy lookup.

Given a user's question, what might be the relevant context?

That's got something to do with this question.

It all comes down to these things called vectors.

I imagine some of you are super familiar with this already, in which case put me on two x and zip through

it.

But for some of you, this is going to be fascinating.

A whole new world as we launch into the world of vector embeddings and encoder.

In the last four and a half weeks, we've experimented with a number of different llms with GPT, with

Claude, with Gemini, deep Seek, to name a few.

Grok are both Crocs.

So one of the things that they all have in common is that they are they are all just one particular

flavor of LLM.

There are, in fact, two different types of LLM, and we've only been looking at one of them, which

is by far the most common, which is the one you see all over the place.

And its official name is an Regressive LM.

It's a mouthful.

Auto regressive LM means this is a model which is trained to do one particular job.

It's trained to take an input sequence and to predict the next token.

That should come after this input sequence.

It's regressive in that it looks back over this input and predicts what should come next.

And as you know, it does it one token at a time.

It predicts the just the next token.

And then the trick is we then feed in a new input that's the original input with that extra token on

the end of it, and we get it to generate the next token.

And that's repeated again and again.

And that is what an auto regressive LM does.

And the reason it does that is because that's how it's been trained.

That's the architecture supports that.

And then it's been given lots of training data where there's an input sequence and the next token.

And so it's trained to get good at that.

That's called an auto regressive LM.

And if you ever just told about an LM without without any framing, it's almost certainly an auto regressive

LM.

That's what they mostly are.

But there is another kind And the other kind goes by many different names.

You sometimes hear it called an encoder.

You sometimes hear them called an embedding model or a vector embedding model.

But this is a model, an autoencoder.

It's an LM which does not generate the next token based on looking back, but rather it takes a full

input sequence, and it produces one output that is meant to reflect the full input.

It's some output based on the full input that's passed in.

Not not just what's to come next, but something that reflects it all.

Okay, I'm being a bit abstract here.

What does that mean concretely?

What would be examples.

Why would you want to do that?

Okay.

So to get concrete there are some very obvious things you might want to use this for.

This idea of of taking a big input and coming up with one thing.

And the most obvious application is classification.

Take take an input and then classify it.

This whole input to mean something.

And one example of classification is sentiment analysis.

Take take a whole sentence and say whether or not this is this is happy or sad, positive or negative,

and other forms of classification like what does this pertain to?

Uh, anything like that would be an example of where you might use an auto encoding LM and there are

lots of other things like that.

Whenever you might want to come up with one output that reflects the entire input.

But in particular, there is one function that that is important for us, one application that we care

about right now.

And that is when you use, uh, one of these autoencoder models to come up with a set of numbers that

best represents this input, a bunch of numbers, maybe it's ten numbers.

And these ten numbers are just meant to reflect the meaning of this input in some way.

And and you could think of those ten numbers as just just a list of numbers that in some way is meant

to represent the concept being covered here by this, this sentence, this sequence of tokens.

And when you do that because ten, ten different numbers, you could think of that as being being what

a mathematician would call a vector, a set of numbers that represents a point in space.

If it were three numbers, it would literally be like an x, y, and a z coordinate to a point in space.

If it's if it's ten numbers, then we'd say it's a it's a point in ten dimensional space, which sounds

very fancy.

It's just saying it's ten different numbers that can be thought of as coordinates to this point.

But but these this is called a vector embedding.

When you take a set of input sequence, a set of input tokens, and then you map that to a bunch of

numbers.

And there are a number of examples of these used in practice.

One of the very first it was called Bert.

It was created by Google in 2018.

It predates GPT.

It was way back.

It was before we even used the expression LLM.

But but Bert stood for bidirectional encoding representations from transformers.

And yeah, it was it was very popular then.

I remember being amazed by it when I first first played with it back back then.

And it's still used today, but very, very popular.

OpenAI embeddings is a whole category of embedding models from OpenAI.

The one that that I use is is called the text embedding.

Three large.

And there's also a three small as well.

And then there's a very popular open source model that will be also experimenting with called the all

mini LLM, L6 v2.

So these are all examples of of autoencoding llms, also known as embedding models that are able to

take an input, a series of tokens and turn it into a set of numbers that we call a vector.

And I just want to tackle something that is a common source of confusion for people that first meet

this, which is people say, okay, so what's the difference between tokens and vectors?

And they are super different and it's very easy to explain.

So let me demystify that right away.

One way to put it is that tokens are inputs and vectors are outputs.

But but basically, tokens is just a super simple way of saying we can't put words into a model.

A model is a mathematical thing that adds things up and multiplies them.

It can't take a word.

So at the very beginning, we have to start by having like a number to represent each word, like the

word, and might be number one, the might be the word number, number two, and so on, so that we

can map words to a single numbers and that that's what tokens are.

They're just a numeric representation of the input.

It's just the input in another form.

And it turns out that if you try and map every word to one of these numbers, then you have some, some

issues with with with how many words like what happens when you run out of vocabulary.

Uh, what do you do with proper names and things like that?

At one point, we tried to have every character, every letter mapped to a number, but then things

got really complicated, really fast.

And so there's this, this nice, happy medium as we explored all the way back in week one, which is

taking fragments of words instead of words or letters, and that just turns out to work really, really

well.

So there is some some hocus pocus about the the way that you create these tokens from text.

But but it's basically just a sort of a mapping and a few rules, nothing fancy to it.

Tokenizers are very simplistic bits of code, and the fact that you have to map text into tokens, it's

just something that you go through to to come up with numbers that can be the inputs into a model that

is tokens.

They are the inputs.

Vectors are what comes out the other side after a model, an LLM has taken in these simplistic tokens.

And it's it's got some some meaning from it.

It's understood the relationship between these different words.

It's understood what, what point you're trying to make, how to represent this information.

And it's turned it into a series of numbers that that reflect the meaning of the input.

And it is an output of the model and that is a vector.

So it always starts with tokens.

Even encoding models take tokens as their inputs, text goes to tokens, goes into the model and what

comes out is the vector.

And and I know what you're thinking.

The pros are thinking, okay, but it's more complicated than that because actually vectors aren't just

the outputs.

Vectors are also what what happens inside an LM between the various layers, you can think of the information

that's moving from one layer to another as being like vectors at each point.

And so, in fact, in many ways, the tokens that come in even to an autoregressive model, they start

by being turned into vectors in terms of the internal representation of an LM.

But that's a pro a pro thing that you don't need to worry about if you didn't follow that.

All you need to really understand is that tokens are just a simple way to represent text that comes

in the input.

Vectors are a sort of advanced internal transformer representation of the information as a, as a,

as a series of different numbers in a vector.

Those are vectors, those are outputs.

Or maybe there are intermediate outputs.

But that is the key difference between tokens and vectors.